
#Introduce yourself/ tell me about your work / Explain what you have done in your project? 
    I'm working as a DevOps engineer, I have experience with setting up CI/CD. 
    As soon as the development team pushes the code to GitHub Jenkins pipeline will be triggered
    it has three stages build, deploy and test, stage, in the build stage it will pull the source
    code and we create docker images, In the deploy stage we deploy the image to Kubernetes cluster
    using helm charts, In the testing stage we run tets line sanity and regression which are given 
    by the testing team, if three are any test failures will be taken care by test engineers 
    if there is any pipeline integration issuer we take care all this pipeline written in the Jenkins 
    files and libraries, I have also experience writing shell scripting to do the automation of the 
    manual tasks and repetitive tasks, working on AWS cloud services like EC2, S3, VPC, Load balancer, 
    Autoscaling, Cloud watch, cloud trail, Route53, KMS, etc. I have worked on docker I have written 
    docker files and optimized docker image size using multistage builds and took security measures 
    while building docker image, I have written YMAL definition files for multiple Kubernetes objects 
    like deployment, service, deamonset, pv, pvc, config maps, etc to deploy and manage microservices 
    in multiple environments like DEV, STAGE, QA in  Kubernetes clusters if there are any deployment 
    issues troubleshooting and finding the root cause and resolving them. I have automated infrastructure 
    provisioning and managing in AWS public cloud using terraform scripts from scratch and I have used 
    Ansible to install and uninstall software on 100s of servers in a single run.

#How many members are there in your company?
#How do you learn new tools and technologies?
#what are the challenges u have faced in your project?
#what is the size of the k8s cluster in your company?
#how terraform is used in your company?

company: Nagarro
1.tell about yourself.
2.what roles u were doing in your current project?
3.what are the k8's resources you are used?
4.explain services you are used in k8's?
5.there are three containers running in a pod . if one container fails the pod should terminate. how you do it ?
6.explain a/b deploying strategey.
7.node affinity , anti affinity.
8.terraform refresh vs terraform import?
9.terraform grunt
10.terraform statefile? how u maintaining?
11.if i delete statefile in remote backend s3 what will happen ? when i run apply command will it say no changes or it will create one more resource?
12.share screen and write resource block for s3?
13.ci tool using? how u deploying to k8's?
14.scripts you know? explain any script u have automated recently?
15.what exactly you doing with ansible?explain

Company: Persistent Systems.
1.explain the roles u have in your organistaion? explain briefly about your current project.
2.what all are the tools u are familar?
3.container port is 80 i want to expose it to 8080 how u do it?
4.services u have worked on ?
5.how u maintaing secrets in k8's ? how about configMaps?
6.share screen write deployment , service yaml files.
7.aws services u have worked on. explain route 53 ? what is A type record set ? have u configured? how ?why?
8.explain the configuration of Network Loadbalancer?
9.what is VPC?what is VPN? can i create ec2 instance without selecting VPC? 
10.what are subnets? how u accesss private subnet?
11.shared libraries jenkins?
12.explain the CD setup u have done? how u deploying into k8's?
13.what are the resources u have created by using terraform?
14.In notepad write the terraform main.tf for ec2.what are modules? write modules block and show?
15.have you used count , for_each? explain
16. explain state file? what happens if u store your statefile in local? what is state locking then explain?
17.How does a day look like for Releasing to Production
18.If an Application is reported unresponsive, what are your initial checks 
19.are u using helm ? what does chart.yml contains ?
20. do you know python?

Company name:- Nlb tech
1) tell about your self  and what are the project your handling
2) What is pull request? Why you will use it
3) if my application getting 404 error ? what are the step will you take 
4) how to you add the SSL certificate to Cluster
5) What are type of parameters in Jenkins
6) what is cgroup in docker
7) how to expose the multiple container to external world
8) why you need ingress and ingress resources
9) what is affinity and anti- affinity 
10) Why are attaching the Role to resources 
11) if you lost the credential to log in to Jenkin how you will retrieve it
12) how you will roll back to the previous build in the Jenkins
13)What is re- build and  post in Jenkins 
14) write a bash scripting
15) difference between poll SCM and build periodically

Company : Talentica 
1.explain the roles and responsibilities in your current project?
2.do you know python?
3.what are all the bash scripts u have written?
4.explain the CICD 
5.scenerio based question on AWS route53,S3-Buckets.
6.how you configure autoscaling?
7.explain the serverless platform u have used in your project.
8.have you used cognito? what is user pool? how u configure?
9.jenkins parameters?
10.docker bridge network?
11.scenerio based docker questions about volume 
12.k8's installation process?
13.k8's ingress scenerio based question?
14.service , deamonset,stateful set of k8's and differnce b/w stateful and deamon.
15.tearrform statefile lock
16.do u have experience in managing the team?

Company : AIRBUS
1.Explain your Role as Release Engineer.What does a typical day look like?
2.explain CICD of your organisation setup?
3.(in code share) write the pipe line from git checkout , image build , sonar scnner,push to regestiry ,k8's deploy (15min time)
4.is your application live ?
5.deployment strategy? you are using blue-green or canary?
6.write script to kill the process called docker
7.How Many Environments are involved and can you explain how code is pushed from Dev to Production
8.How do you organize your source codes in Version Control 
  When do you branch out.
9.If there is a issue in production and there are already some features developed which are due for testing, how do you organize source code to have this issues get fixed first 
10.What are the health checks you do daily
11.Explain - AWS , its services and how best you have leveraged each of them
12.How did you support Auto Scaling
13.have u used cucumber , postman, JIRA?
14.What was the need for IaC? 
15.write terraform script for s3. write remote exec block ?
16.explain k8's RBAC ,HPA,
17.explain ingress ? which ingress controller you are using?
18. you said you are deploying with HELM. what are the advantages

company: Apparel Group/6th Street
1. introduce yourself.and explain your roles in your previous organistation.
2. tell briefly about the tools you have worked on.
3. as u mentioned u are build and release engineer explain briefly about CICD setup in your organistaion.
4. tell me about aws architecture of your current organisation
5. diff b/w docker and docker swarm
6. diff b/w k8's and docker 
7. I have lost the key of my EC2. how to get back the key? is there any other way to launch new instance without taking AMI?
8. what are the fields that will be displayed when i type free command? What is swap memory in linux?
9. which DB u are using?explain RDS
10. How to block the traffic from particular IP?
11. Some EC2 running in private subnet. How do u provide internet access to them?
12. linux process is running i want top 5 and last 3 process how u get it ?
13. you have written shell script. If any of the shell command is failing u should exit from that point itself and should not execute the script. What will u do?
14. write a shell script in your notepad of your wish and explain the steps.
15. how you check the load of the system ?
16. if you want to block abc.com with specific ip address how will u do it?
17. explain vpc and vpc peering?
18. what are the jenkins plugin have you used
19. Which artifactory are you using ?
20. explain jenkins backup process?
21. what are all the env you have created in your organistaion?









